Hi.
Welcome to the next section, which is my favorite part, and it's about body language.
Now, if you've seen my intro video, then you will know that I mentioned that 93% of all communication
is nonverbal, which means 38% of it is through your tone of voice, and 55% is through body language.
As humans evolved, the limbic brain has consistently been the one responsible for the most primal instincts.
And when people encounter an unfamiliar situation, one that could potentially cause discomfort to them,
then the limbic brain or the reptilian brain, as we call it, will trigger one of three different responses
in this order Freeze, flight and fight.
Now the first thing your brain will tell you to do when you encounter an uncomfortable situation is
to freeze.
And if freezing is not an option, then it will ask you to run away.
And if running away is not an option either, then your brain tells you to fight it out.
And for a lot of people, nervousness.
Because we live in a civilized society today.
You're not faced with a lot of potentially deadly, uncomfortable situations.
Sometimes you can, of course, and that's the sad fact of some of the situations that we encounter
today.
But other than that, in most situations, since we're talking about interviews here, interviews can
be overwhelming for a lot of job seekers and interviews can also be nerve wracking.
And this nervousness presents itself during the actual interview itself.
And a candidate wants to either freeze and not respond anymore or they want to run away or they want
to fight it out.
And it causes potentially negative reactions during the interview itself.
And I've mentioned to this time, and I've mentioned this to you time and again, that an interview
has to be an enriching experience and you have to allow yourself to feel nervous.
Only then you, your brain will say you're nervous, but it's okay because this is not a life threatening
situation.
If anything, it could be a life changing situation and you will no longer freeze.
You will not try to run away or fight the situation.
Now, the fundamental basis for finding out whether or not someone is having a good time, whether or
not someone is at peace with themselves, is to find out if they're comfortable or uncomfortable, or
rather comfort versus discomfort behavior.
And in order to find out what makes someone comfortable, you have to establish a baseline in an interview.
You want to put yourself in a position where you tell your brain that it's okay.
You want to trick your brain into feeling comfortable, even if you're not.
When that happens, then anything that's out of the ordinary.
For example, if I'm sitting here with with an open body posture, I'm not protecting any of my organs.
I'm comfortable sitting here in front of you and talking to you.
And all of a sudden I lean back and I cross my arms like this.
Then I'm no longer open to a conversation.
I'm no longer open to debate or whatever is happening at that moment.
That tells the other person that I'm not in a state of comfort anymore, so then I either want to freeze
or I want to run away, or I want to fight.
And I want to do neither.
None of those right now.
So that's said.
Let's take a look at a couple of pictures which show us what comfort and discomfort look like.
Now.
When?
You look at these people here, you see that they are all sitting down.
They're all displaying open body posture.
What that means is they do not feel vulnerable.
They have smiles on their faces.
Real or fake is a different story, but they have smiles on their faces.
They're displaying open body posture.
Their palms are raised up.
Then the lady on the left is showing a thumbs up sign.
And these are all good signs.
No discomfort.
When you look at these two people here, then you can clearly say that they're not comfortable.
How can you do that is because there is a lack of a smile on this person's face.
You can see that the facial muscles are really tense and it's the same with the lady in the picture.
Below is the muscles on the face are really tense.
The muscles on the shoulder are really tense and the arms, the arms are crossed here and here.
Someone in the picture below.
The lady is trying to remove her frustration on that pencil.
So then you know that these people are experiencing discomfort at that moment.
The best way to get success in an interview.
Besides learning how to say, besides learning what to say is to allow yourself to feel a little uncomfortable,
but at the same time, tell your brain that this is not a life threatening situation.
What's the worst that can happen?
You don't get the job.
Go ahead and improve.
Right.
So when you tell your brain that the worst thing, worst possible scenario is that you may not have
a job at the end of the interview, then you should also convince your brain that it's okay.
And when you do that, then during the interview you'll be much more comfortable than you would have
been if you think only about the consequences.
So the fundamental takeaway from this lesson today is.
Allow yourself to be nervous during an interview.
If you are feeling nervous because that itself will bring a sense of comfort to you.
And the whole premise of having a good interview and leaving the interviewer with a good experience,
a happy memory about you, lies on your display and comfortable behavior.
Thank you.
And I hope to see you in the next video.